# EatSheet (cs50-final-project)
### Video Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QAios8LUUf8
### Description: For my final project, I wanted to work on something that accomplishes something that is simple, but also practical. I also wanted to push myself to get my hands dirty with an API and get used to reading documentation and learning a set of tools in a short period of time. 

### EatSheet takes a location, some user input, and will recommend you a place to eat based on your criteria. It makes heavy use of the Google Maps API, while also being a one-page app that is dynamic and responsive. The heavy lifting here involves using the nearbySearch functionality of the API, which requires a specific search request object. This object's properties are populated via a clean, minimal user input process, as well as some additional useful tools included in the API such as Geocoding to take the user's address and convert it to a latitude and longitude. I used basic JS here to make the page reactive and dynamic.

### Some of the major considerations I had to make were in regards to how much user input I could realistically use to filter through my data that gets fetched. Unfortunately, the information I receive from the API alone is not as detailed as I may have liked. My initial desire for the project was to have the user provide keywords to specifically exclude from the data, such as if the user knew the definitely do NOT want to eat pizza, they could not be shown any pizza places. However, the way to accomplish this would require 2 API calls instead of 1, and I specifically tried to keep the number of API calls down to one for the sake of this project, as the API is not a free service. It became a challenge instead for me to get as specific of details and options as I could given one API call.

### As I worked through the project, several interesting challenges emerged regarding the API. Towards the end specifically, I realized I was not getting all of the restaurants from my fetching as I would expect. It turns out that the API can only return locations in pages of 20, which led me to add some additional lines to the nearbySearch functionality in order to include pagination. This results in the overall method having a relatively slow loading time occasionally because of a delay in the pagination on the API's end. This ended up being a nice challenge, as it led to me including the displayWaiting function and using some bootstrap to have a nice radial wheel during the waiting period.

### Overall, this project was a great challenge with regards to asynchronous development, API incorporation, and barebones reactive design. I learned a lot about API's in general, and it was incredibly rewarding to finally properly get my head around the multiple layers of asynchronous behavior going on.